Assingment 1
Task 1.
smart Fridge 
Main Features:
 Internal temeperature control, inventory management and wifi connectivity.
 Why embedde system:
 Allows for more precise temperature managment and some smart home intergrations.
Improvment:
Food spoilage tracking like rembering dates spoilage dates and loging them and giving a notification when something is going to spoil.
Barcode Scanner
Main Features:
Laser/LED ligth source, sensor for relected light, decoding processor and wired/wireless comunication
Why embedde system:
For real-time decoding of barcodes requires dedicated processign with minimal power consumption.
Smart TV
Main Features:
Internet streaming, app support, high definiton display and remote control
Why Embedded system:
To provide multimiedia palyback, connectivity and user interaction in a single device.
Improvement:
Adaptive brightness based on ambient light sensors. To Adjust britness acording to rooms lighting.
Blood Glucose Monitor
Main Features:
Blood sample reader, biosensor, digital display and memory for storage.
Why embedded system:
To Provide real-time health measurements with minimal power and size.
Robot Vacuum Cleaner
Main Features:
Autonomous navigation, obstical detection, scheduling and cleaning modes 
Why embedded system:
To enable realtime motor controls, mapping and efficent battery usage.
Improvement:
Intergation with an app that allows precises mapping of routes around the house.
Airfryer 
Main Features:
Digital timer temperature control, heating elemen and fan circulation.
Why embedded system:
To maintain precise cooking cycles and ensurese safety.
Microwave Oven
Main Features:
Touch controls, timer, magnetron heating and rotating tray.
Why embedded system:
To Ensures accurate timing, power control and user-friendly interface.
washing machine
Main Features:
Multiple wash programs, motor speed control, water-level sensors and digital display.
Why embedded system: To Automate washing cycles, opitmizes water levels and energy use. 
Keycard reader
Main Features: Reads digital codes from RFID keycards, verifies user access with server.
Why embeded system:
To Provide secure, low latency authentication and control in access systems.
Digital Thermostat
Main Features: Tenoerature seonsors, heating/cooling control, scheduling and wifi-connectivity.
Why embedded system:
To Manage indoor climate efficiently while minizing energy usage.


Task 2.
a)
System inputs are power supply, temperature setting usually user input or automatic, sodering tip thermocouple.
System outputs are Heating element control, temperature display, statues leds and audiable buzzer. These are possible thing soudering iron might have.
b)
Why would we embedd a computer:
-To provide even more precises control on the heating soudering iron tip.
-For the possiblity swap between setting for leaded and unleaded soudering meaning wheter soudering line has lead in it or not. 
-Energy saving. 
These would be my reasons to sodder computer. 


What would the computer do in the system:
It would aim to read the soudering iron's tips temperature and manage heating acording to it. It would manage power consuption and display more information to user. Also would provide safety shutdown to stop possible overheating.

What would be the desing constraints:
Low power consumption would be priority. It would stil need to be compact. It should be resistant to heat and be durrable. It should be controllable in Real-time.
(Wolf, 2019)
What could be some additional features:
Sleep mode to stop soudering iron from staying on for long periods of time. I dont think there that many other features that would be usefull for a soudering iron :)




Task 3.
a)
Features:
1. Peripherlas and Memory:
SoC include built-in ram, rom and toher peripherals.
MCU Intergates essetial peripherals like timers, counters and Analog-to-Digital converters and some small amaount of RAM and ROM
MPU Relies totally on external memoery and peripheral interfaces, that provide greater memory capacity.
2. Cost:
Socs are very expensive.
MCUs are very affordable. 
MPUs are moderetly affordable. 
3. Power consumption:
Socs More Energy efficient
MCUs Very low power consumption
MPUs Higher power consumption.
4. Processing power:
Socs are powerful enough to run full on operating systems like linus. 
MCUs are lower processing power, designed to run specific simple firmware.
MPUs High computational power and fexibility. MPUs are suitable for runnigh comple computations and operating systems. 
5.Use cases:
SoC Smartphones, tablets
MCU Iot, appliances (Lin JI 2020)
MPU Industrial, embedded linux systems
b)
I would choose a MCU with BLE suppport model probaly Cortex-M4
 Power consumption requirements:
I would work towards wearable device so it would need low power consumption processor. 
 Computational needs for sensor fusion:
MCUS inclued DSP instructions and floating-point units realtime sensors fusion algoritms
 Cost constraints:
MCUs are generally cheaper than the other opitons for wearable devices and are sutibale for mass-market consumer and industrial devices.
 Development complexity:
MCUs have broad support for RTOS and multiple libraries which should reduce development compleixty. 
(arm https://developer.arm.com/Processors/Cortex-M4)
(Lin JI 2020)

Potential usecases:
 Industrial werable helmet that can singnal the forman if something falls on somenes head they or if they fall or wrist band for something similar.
Consumer some sort of eleder care wearable device that could help track incase they fall send signal for help.
 



Reflection:
The excercise them self weren't that challengin. I didn't come up with best devices uscases for device for task 3. I have personally done bit work with sodering and emebbeded systems. Desing thinking is not new to me. Where I was bad was at finding good academic sources on these things. I learned many new things about desing and alot more about MCUs Socs and MPUs. I am personally quite happy how these excerise turned out. I used llms in the excerises only to enhance my own learing about subjects mostly in learning more about MCUs, Socs and MPUs According to university guidelines.


Sources:
For desing constraints I utilized this book.
Wolf, W. (2019). Computers as Components: Principles of Embedded Computing System Design (4th ed.)
https://developer.arm.com/Processors/Cortex-M4 Source for the chip for task 3
  doi = {10.48550/ARXIV.2007.10319},
  url = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.10319},
  author = {Lin,  Ji and Chen,  Wei-Ming and Lin,  Yujun and Cohn,  John and Gan,  Chuang and Han,  Song},
  title = {MCUNet: Tiny Deep Learning on IoT Devices},
  year = {2020},
